A Startup Life
By: Henry Shen 

    Leslie is a smart, determined, and a good leader. She works at a
    startup company that she founded with her friend fron college, 
     Mike. Leslie is the chief technology officer (CTO) and Mike is
    the CEO, who handles the business side. The startup, called
    Aireal, is going through it's third round of venture capital 
    (VC) fuding. Meaning, it is doing well, attracting customers, but
    it just needs more money in order to scale to succeed. Leslie 
    has worked at Aireal since graduating college, but now feels 
    unsure of her career path because of all the challenges and BS 
    she faces on a daily basis, challenges that are common at a 
    startup. Because of this self-doubt, she has begun interviewing
    at a large tech company called Billion, similar to Google IRL. 
    Throughout the story, She confides to her friend Ron and her 
    mentor, Ann, to figure out what to do about her career path. 
    Does she want to continue working at a startup? Are the problems
    that she deals with worth it? Would life at another, bigger, 
    tech company satisify her career goals? This story aims to 
    investigate those problems.   

INT. Small conference or meeting room. Day time 

Leslie is in a small room, at a programming technical interview at a large tech company called Billion
simialar to a Google or a Facebook. Leslie is seen finishing up the final lines of a programming technical 
interview. She is writing on a white board with a marker, slightly crouched down as she writes a closing 
bracket (the "}" symbol) on the board. She straightens up, and turns to the interviewer, who is also in the 
room as well. 
    
     /*  The technical details here don't really matter unless it is being   
         shown to a room of other software engineers. The whole point is 
         that non-techies think she is impressive with her technical  
         knowledge and techies have a general understanding of her 
         interview problem. 
    */

                Leslie
        And if after you store all the values in a hash table,
        all the IP address should be unique. And its associated 
        value will be a list of timestamps that a user visited 
        the site. And for each visit, we can iterate over each 
        web page for that specific user. This overall process 
        is O(n^2). Which isn't the best, but its better than
        the O(n!) algorithm before.

                Interviewer
        Looks good. You're on the right track. Now do we need
        to store all the values that were given? Is there someway 
        we can reduce the amount of items we need to iterate over?

Leslie pauses for a second while looking at the board. She seems deep in thought, but also a bit rushed
since the time limit to complete the technical interview is running out. 

                Leslie
        Uhh, I don't know. Hmm. (Beat)

                Leslie 
        Oh I got it! We can sort the input first before we stuff 
        it in a hashtable. Then, we can look at the last n/2 input
        and put that in the hashtable instead. It is still O(n^2), 
        but we'll be saving memory. 

Leslie quickly erases some code on the white board and rapidly scribbles some code. It looks more sloppy compared to the rest of her good handwriting. She can be seen writing and talking at
the same time. 

                Inteviewer
        Awesome! That looks good. 

Interviewer looks at their phone for time. 

        And we're out of time. But the solution looks good and it was 
        almost exactly what we were looking for. I'll get your results
        to the selection committee and you *should* be hearing from us 
        in the coming days. 


                Leslie
        OK, sounds good. Thank you for your time! 

They shake hands. Leslie leaves the room. 

EXT. Outside a corporate tech office. The surroundings seems modern. 

CUT to Leslie reaching for her phone. She calls her friend, Ron. She walks away from the building as she 
calls Ron on the phone. 

                Leslie
        Hey Ron, I just got out. You good for lunch in 10 minutes?

                Ron
        Yeah sure. Sounds good. I'll be done with our load test
        soon. Meet you at lunch in 10. 

Leslie hangs up her phone and gets in her car and she drives off. 


CUT TO EXT. Either a coffee shop or a bench near a busy area. Ron is sitting at
a table awaiting for Leslie. She walks in and looks for her friend. Ron looks up 
and waves to her. Leslie notices and sits at his table. 

     /*  maybe have ron ask about why Leslie is interviewing before this 
     	  scene. Or have him be surprised that she is interviewing when she 
         already has a job.
        This scene is a fork in that it can decide the tone of this film 
        and the mentality of Leslie. 
    */

                Ron
        Sup Leslie, long time no see. How've you been? Been a long 
        time since graduation.  

                Leslie
        Yeah it has! It's been...stressful, being the CTO 
        at Aireal. The startup life is a wild rollercoaster.
        Everyday you put out small fires, sometimes big ones. 
        Anyways, how have you been

                Ron
         I am a lead developer for my team now. Get to make the 
         big decisions such as: are we using tabs or spaces
         as our for our code base. 

                Leslie
        Congrats on your promotion into upper management. 

                Ron 
        I'm not there yet. I still code every day. And you
        need to stop needlessly hating on "upper management".

Leslie smiles at the small jab at her distrustful sentiment. She seems like she is looking for the courage 
to say something. She finally looks at Ron 

                Leslie
        I just interviewed at Billion today. 

                Ron 
        So why are you interviewing at Billion? I thought you 
        were loving that startup life? Thought that Leslie wasn't 
        going to work for a huge, heartless tech corporation
        that only sells ads.                                

                Leslie
        You know, I thought the same thing too. But now, I'm 
        not so sure. I think I need to see something else to 
        truly know if I really want...this. I enjoy working 
        in a small scrappy team. Everyone giving their all.
        Where failure could literally be tomorrow or success
        could be a year away. But...

                Ron
        But... 

Leslie looks distraught and unsure of herself. 
        
                Ron
        While in college you always talked about working 
        at a startup. You andMark almost dropped out. 
        In fact, you were pitching to VCs during senior year. 
        You had a series A going before graduation! 

                Leslie
        Yeah, I almost didn't graduate because I was working 
        on the presentation instead of studying for the linear
        algebra final. 

                Ron
        You might have had this rosey-view of working at a 
        startup, but that's fine. You've done well so far. 
        Looking from the outside, you are a very capable CTO. 
        You hitting a difficult patch right now? 

                Leslie
        Yeah. Going through a series C, focusing on growth, 
        somehow we're supposed to double our paying users 
        in the next year. All while making sure the 
        servers don't crumble under the load and finding 
        enough time to develop new features for the site!

                Ron
        Seems like you made your decision already.   

                Leslie
        But I feel like I'm leaving my child behind, if I 
        go to a big tech company. Everyone on my team could 
        work at Billion if they wanted to. They even try to
        poach some of our engineers. 

                Ron
        It still seems you care about your company and your team.
        You talk like all of you are a family. And that's rare. 

                Leslie
        (sarastically) Yeah, my company. And a monument to all
        my mistakes. 

                Ron
        And also your successes. Even so many tech people want to
        work at Billion, the company is not without their problems.
        When you get called back for another interview, talk to their
        engineers. Ask them what are some of their daily challenges. 
        They might be facing the same problems as you. Or more 
        realistically, they don't have to worry about as much
        because they're not running a company. 

                Leslie
        (reluctantly) Well, alright. And what do I do in the 
        meantime? 

                Ron
        Make sure your servers are still alive when you hit 
        100 paying users. 

Leslie smiles at the remark. She seems a bit more reassured. 

                Leslie
        Well I'll try my best. Thanks again for this. 

Ron's phone rings or buzzes. Ron looks at his phone and looks a little shook.

                Ron
        Absolutely. Any time. We should talk about this later. 
        I gotta go. Production issues. Someone didn't config
        the load balancer correctly. 

They both get up and leave. Leslie and Ron exit the coffee shop in seperate directions. As Leslie 
leaves, she looks disheartend. She looks at the ground as she walks away.  

CUT TO an office building with a modern, open office setup. Computers and laptops line the tables.
There are a bunch of wires and coffee cups that are on the tables. The atmosphere gives off a tech
and startup feel. People are working at their computers either at the tables or on couches. Leslie 
walks in and starts to head for her desk. She gets interrupted by Mark, her co-founder and CEO. 

                Mark
        Hey! How's my CTO doing this fine afternoon? 

Leslie looks a little bit frustrated.  

                Leslie
        I'm good. Gonna meet with the backend engineers to 
        finalize our authentication platform and then meet with
        the frontend engineers to plan for our new web page
        for the upcoming feature. 

                Mark
        Awsome. That sounds great. And I know you are working 
        really hard, but we need to add one new feature. 

                Leslie
        Another one?! Look man, my team is already pulling
        12 hour days just to keep the current web services
        afloat. There are so many critical functions, like 
        the ads generator, that could literally go down if 
        someone opened their browser console. Our servers
        for storing user's video, the main thing that attracts
        users to our app, are barely scaling to demand. I can't
        just ask my engineers to "add a new feature" like 
        it's nothing. And we gotta stop changing our requirements 
        when we're in the middle of an iteration! 

                Mark
        I get that you guys are working hard. but look.
        If we want to get our next round of funding, we need
        to add this new feature that the VC came up with in the
        next release. And I already told him that we would do it.

Leslie pauses to think about the overload that her and her team is facing with these new requirements
for the startup's core application. She looks shocked and in dispair. 

                Leslie
        Okay. We already agreed from the start that I would
        get the final say over feature requests and our
        release schedule. 

                Mark
        Well, if we don't listen to our VC, then we're 
        out of money in the next month. 

                Leslie
        Okay, you gotta stop thinking software development is 
        just editing some HTML and making the website look pretty.
        And you gotta stop finding asshole investors

                Mark
        I know your job is hard and I try to sheild the 
        engineering team from the worst ideas. And all VCs
        are assholes. 

                Leslie
        I don't think you're lookhing hard enough. Well, 
        what does Mr. VC want us to implement. 

                Mark
        We need to add a distributed ledger.

                Leslie
        (beat) A fucking blockchain? 

                Mark
        Yeah. Our VCs want us to use blockchain. They
        increased their funding by 5% because I told
        them we would use blockchain. Oh and machine
        learning. They were super psyched! 

Mark's phone rings. 

                Mark
        Sorry, I gotta go.  

                Leslie
        Are you ser-
    /*  This part below makes Mark seem like a fuck boy. This can either contribute to the story 
        or derail it bc of this distracting character.
    */ 

He picks up the phone as Leslie is talking and walks without saying goodbye. He can be heard talking 
in a bro-frat-style voice to someone on the phone. 

                Mark
        (As he's leaving) Sup bro...yeah we'll definitely 
        get the new blockchain thingy out in the next release.
        Don't you worry, man. 

Leslie stands there incredulously.

                Leslie
        Fuck our investors. 

Leslie checks the time on her phone and walks to her team an a hurried fashion. She annouces to 
her team. 

                Leslie
        Alright, all-hands meeting in 5 minutes! We're 
        meeting in the conference room!

CUT TO a conference room with a white board in the same building. Leslie walks in while her 
engineers are sitting around the room.  
                
                Leslie
        Alright. So we need to start work migrating our current
        shit database to a faster. And we  also need to clean up
        the homepage user interface so that the ads have more 
        space. That's what our investorswant for this new release. 
                (beat)
        And we also need to implement a blockchain. 

The engineers in the room have questioned looks and start talking among themsselves. 

                Leslie
        Guys. I know its just a hyped up tech that no one knows
        anything about right now, but Mark told me that the 
        investors want us to use a blockchain in order to get
        our series C. 

                Engineer 1 (Kelly)
        Are you serious? We've spent 12 hours here for the past
        2 weeks trying to get our new version for ad placement
        to work. We barely have time to finish scaling our video
        service too. 

                Engineer 2 (Jason)
        I agree. The frontend designers can't keep 
        up with the the new features that we're supposed to 
        have AND keep up with the new specs for any previous 
        work we did. 

                Engineer 1
        Leslie, you've done a good job shielding us from meetings
        and management BS so we could do our jobs developing the 
        app. But you gotta tell Mark that he can't keep bombarding 
        us with new features every other day just because it sounds 
        cool. We got old code that we need to make better. 

Leslie stands there in thought, trying to figure out how to solve her teams tech problems. After pondering for a few seconds she raises her head. 

                Leslie
        Kelly, migrate our user info tables to the new database
        only. Have our authentication microservice use that new 
        database. Our test data can wait. Jason, try to hardcode 
        some of the front end componants right now. For the video
        service problems, we won't serve 1080p video, just 720. 

                Engineer 1
        And the blockchain thing?

                Leslie
        Uhh, I don't know. Just make a linked list in random
        folder that doens't get used. We can call it "a fast
        and lightweight blockchain."

                Engineer 1 
        Sounds good.

Everyone leaves the conference room. Leslie stays back while looking at her notebook and her laptop. She is 
typing a few things on her computer. She notices an interesting email in her inbox from Billion

                Leslie
        (Reading to herself) Hello Leslie, it was a pleasure
        to meet with you today...You did extremely well at
        the technical interview...Do you want to come in 
        next week for the second round of interviews with 
        the engineering team? 

        Huh. 

She begins responding back to her email.
        
        Thank you Michelle for the opportunity today. I enjoyed
        meeting with you. (beat)

She mulls over her decision to go for the next round of interviews. 
        
        Next Tuedsay afternoon would be great! I'm excited to 
        speak with the software engineering team. See you
        next week! 

Leslie takes one more time to think about her decision. She then mouses over the "send" button and clicks it. 
She then looks outside the conference room to her team of engineers. Some have headphones in soley focused on
their screens, some are looking over others' sholders helping debug a program, and others are standing around, 
talking and laughing. She then sees Mark and another business-side person walk past the conference room. 
Leslie takes a small breath. She gathers her stuff, walks aout of the conference room, and back to her desk,
among her peers. 

CUT to Leslie working at her desk. A junior engineer across from her looks past their computer and asks Leslie a
question.

                Engineer 3
        Hey Leslie, I'm new and still trying to get the hang of
        things around here. Do you know how to set up my virtual
        machine? 

                Leslie
        Yeah sure, I can help you with that. 

Leslie gets up and walks to the junior engineer's desk. Halfway there, Mark comes up to her. 

                Mark
        Hey Leslie. I need to talk to you about another change
        in this iteration. 

                Leslie
        Mark, we'll talk about this later. I need to help one of
        my engineers set up their development environment.

Leslie brushes past Mark and heads to the junior engineer's desk. Mark looks a little bit shocked that someone
ignored him. While Leslie is leaning over the engineer's desk, she looks to Mark. 

        And we need to talk later about the changes. 

                Mark
        (Surprised) Oh, that's exactly what I was going to talk
        about. I'll meet you in the conference room. 

CUT to Mark inside the conference room. Leslie walks inside after helping her engineer. 

                Mark
        Okay so the ad relevacy-

                Leslie
        Cut the bullshit man. 

Mark looks stunned at her remarks. 

        You need to stop thinking that my team and I can aquiece
        to your every demand just because some venture capitalist
        told you it would be "cool" or some of your business-side
        buddies gave you some "awesome" idea. 

                Mark
        Okay, well-

                Leslie
        And you need to step up for yourself. For our company. 
        And as your CTO, you need to include me in your conversations
        with our investors. And learn to say no to bad ideas. 
        Like this blockchain POS. 

                Mark
        I get it but-

                Leslie
        And when did you start turing into one of those douchy-
        CEOs? You and I used to work so closely together and now?
        Now I feel like we're constantly enemies trying to wrangle
        control of the company from each other. And it can't be
        like this. 

Mark realizes his past mistakes at Aireal and has a look of remorse. 

                Mark
        You know what Leslie, you're right. When we first started
        I generally handled the business side and you generally
        handled the tech side. But we worked together 100%
        of the time. And, I have been a bit of an asshole recently.
        Spending so much time with snakes has rubbed off on me. 
        (beat) I'll look into less investors and have the engineering
        team focues more on the core products. We don't need a
        stupid blockchain. You can ignore today's new feature
        requests. Focus on completing whatever tasks you think
        need to be finished. I trust you. 

                Leslie
        Thanks Mark. Glad you understand our situation. I'll 
        let our engineering team know. See you later. 

Leslie walks out of the room and heads back to her desk, in the middle of the software engineering team. 

                Leslie
        Good news. We're scrapping the blockchain. Frontend 
        team: lets focus on the ads placement and clean
        up the code. Lets stop loggin anything to the
        browser console. Backend team: we're working
        on our scalability issues. Lets try to scale 
        horizontally so our videos get served faster. Questions?

                Engineer 1
        Nope. Makes sense to me. 

                Leslie
        Alright lets get to work. 

Leslie and the engineers head back to their desks. Leslie starts rapidly typing on her keyboard. 

FADE to the clock on her computer starting at 4pm to 6pm. Leslie is drawing a diagram on the whiteboard with other engineers around her, 
like she is explaining some technical concept. 

FADE to the clock at 8pm. An engineer is sitting at their desk while Leslie is standing over their shoulder. Leslie is pointing to the engineer's 
screen as they are debugging a program. 

FADE to the clock at 10pm. Leslie looks physically tired but not mentally. There are bags under her eyes but she still is typing away at her keyboard.
Her screen with code being typed. She drinks a cup of coffee.


CUT to the same room. It is 1:00am on her computer clock. She looks noticibibly more tired than before. Two coffee cups sit at her table in the 
conference room. Her phone buzzes. It is Ann, her mentor. Leslie picks up 
her cell phone. 

     /*  This is the first intro of Ann, her mentor. Should Ron and Ann be 
         the same person? There isnt enough time to expo two characters.   
         Better to develop one character well. Plus, both these characters 
          play a mentorship role.  
    */

                Leslie
        Hey Ann, why are you calling me so late? And more 
        importantly, why are you calling me? We're millennials;
        we don't call. 

                Ann
        Yean, well miss me with that bullshit. How's work? 
        Are you Steve Jobs yet? Or are you gonna end up
        like Theranos?

                Leslie
        Only time will tell. And if we hve more time.
        So we might never know. 

                Ann
        You'll figure it out. You always do. I've been watching
        over you since your freshman year and I don't think 
        I've seen a smarter and motivated person. 

                Leslie
        Thanks. It means a lot. I've been so lucky to have 
        a great mentor by my side, helping me navigate through
        shitstorm after shitstorm. 

                Ann
        Well it sounds like you're having fun at the startup
        life. 

                Leslie
        Yeah. But there's a big comfort knowing that its my own
        shitstorm. And not some fuckboy-CEO's problem who is 
        20 levels separated from you in management and pushes
        the grunt work to the engineers and blames them 
        for not delivering on their code. When its the fuckboy
        CEO who keeps fucking changing what they want and it 
        gets annoying for the engineering team. 

                Ann
        Wow. That's a lot coming from you. You sure that isn't 
        your CEO? Your co-founder? 

                Leslie
        It is a little bit. But we all have our faults. And he's 
        not that bad anyway. 

                Ann
        And why do you always hate on upper management? 

                Leslie
        Oh sorry. Didn't mean to offend you. Congratz on your
        promotion. 

                Ann
        Thank you! It's nice at upper management. I get to tell
        the software developers what to do now. Guide the architecture
        decisions. You should try it. 
        (beat)
        How was your interview today? At Billion?

                Leslie
        It was good! Got through the problem with just barely 
        enough time left. But the recruiter said some pretty
        positive things as I finished. 

                Ann
        So after all this talk about startup startup startup,
        you want to work for Billion? One of the Big 4 tech
        companies?

                Leslie
        They still have a startup feel. And I don't know. I 
        enjoy taking charge of my Aireal's problems because
        they're my problems. But it gets tiresome. And even though I might enjoy
        the atmosphere at Billion, and the people, I don't
        think I'll ever be able to get over my entreprenurial
        spirit. You know what I mean? 

                Ann
        Yeah I get it. Good for you though. Anyways. get
        some sleep. Your company will die when you're 
        sleep deprived. 

                Leslie
        (jokingly annoyed) 
        Fine, I will.  And thanks for calling. Means a lot. 

                Ann
        Of course. Anytime. See ya. 

                Leslie
        See ya. 

Leslie hangs up the phone and stares at her computer, still unmoving since she hung up the phone. She has a slight smile.
                
                Leslie
        Yeah. My company.           

FADE OUT.

     /*  I am not a fan of abrupt endings, even when all plot lines are 
         wrapped up. This seems a bit too abrupt. Perhaps add an        
         additional scene or make this convo flow a different way. Or show 
         Leslie getting up and appreciating her startup office. Can add 
         non-dialog plot/character development.  
        Show that Leslie has accepted the difficulties of a startup and 
        has CHOSEN to follow this path, because she enjoys it. 
    */



